Policy-based authorization article overhaul (#37231)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authorization/policies.md

## Requirements and policy registration

An authorization policy consists of one or more *requirements*, which are used by a policy to evaluate authorization for the current user principal. A requirement implements <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationRequirement>, which is an empty marker interface.

When a requirement doesn't contain data or have properties (parameters), it acts as an empty marker to trigger an associated *authorization handler* (<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationHandler>) for processing authorization (described in detail later in this article). Because the handler in this case relies entirely on the HTTP context, user claims, or backend data to make a decision about the user meeting the requirement, the requirement class itself doesn't require internal data or parameters. The requirement only instructs the framework which rule to evaluate.

For example, consider the following minimum age requirement (`MinimumAgeRequirement`), which is implemented merely as a marker class:

```csharp
public class MinimumAgeRequirement : IAuthorizationRequirement { }
```

> The preceding requirement would be used to create a policy to confirm that the user is over some specific age that the handler is checking. An `AuthorizationHandler<AdministratorOnlyRequirement>` inspects the `AuthorizationHandlerContext.User`. If the user has an birth date claim that indicates that they are over a certain age, the requirement succeeds. The requirement object doesn't require any properties (parameters) in this case. The next example demonstrates the complete implementation of a minimum age requirement that has a parameter to set the minimum age.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding requirement is used to create a policy that confirms the user is over a specific age that the handler checks. An `AuthorizationHandler<MinimumAgeRequirement>` inspects the `AuthorizationHandlerContext.User`. If the user has a birth date claim that indicates they're over a certain age, the requirement succeeds. The requirement object doesn't require any properties (parameters) in this case. The next example demonstrates the complete implementation of a minimum age requirement that has a parameter to set the minimum age.
```
This seemed incorrect, maybe a copy paste problem.   I don't see `AdministratorOnlyRequirement` defined anywhere in the article and it does not seem to match match this minimum-age scenario. I think it was `MinimumAgeRequirement` that might have been intended.

Author: Great catch! I changed the example but didn't change it in the text.

### Use a handler for multiple requirements

The following example shows a one-to-many relationship in which a permission handler can handle three different types of requirements:

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/security/authorization/BlazorWebAppAuthorization/Policies/Handlers/PermissionHandler.cs":::

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/security/authorization/policies/PoliciesAuthApp1/Services/Handlers/PermissionHandler.cs":::

:::moniker-end

The preceding code traverses <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationHandlerContext.PendingRequirements%2A>&mdash;a property containing requirements not marked as successful. For a `ReadPermission` requirement, the user must be either an owner or a sponsor to access the requested resource. For an `EditPermission` or `DeletePermission` requirement, they must be an owner to access the requested resource.

### Handler registration

> Register handlers in the services collection during configuration. The following example registers a minimum age handler (`MinimumAgeHandler`) as singleton service, but a handler can be registered using any of the built-in [service lifetimes](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection#service-lifetimes):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register handlers in the services collection during configuration. The following example registers a minimum age handler (`MinimumAgeHandler`) as a singleton service, but a handler can be registered using any of the built-in [service lifetimes](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection#service-lifetimes):
```
Very minor typo fix.

```dotnetcli
dotnet user-jwts create --claim appid={GUID}
```

Example:

```dotnetcli
dotnet user-jwts create --claim appid=00001111-aaaa-2222-bbbb-3333cccc4444
```

The output produces a token after "`Token:`" in the command shell:

```dotnetcli
New JWT saved with ID '{JWT ID}'.
Name: {USER}
Custom Claims: [appid=00001111-aaaa-2222-bbbb-3333cccc4444]

Token: {TOKEN}
```

Set the value of the token (where the `{TOKEN}` placeholder appears in the preceding output) aside for use later.

You can decode the token in an online JWT decoder, such as [`jwt.ms`](https://jwt.ms/) to see its contents, revealing that it contains an `appid` claim with the client app's ID:

```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}.{
  "unique_name": "{USER}",
  "sub": "{USER}",
  "jti": "14ed7729",
  "appid": "{CLIENT ID}",
  "aud": [
    "https://localhost:7250",
    "http://localhost:7251"
  ],
  "nbf": 1780660887,
  "exp": 1788609687,
  "iat": 1780660888,
  "iss": "dotnet-user-jwts"
}.[Signature]
```

Execute the command again with an incorrect client ID (`appid`) value:

```dotnetcli
dotnet user-jwts create --claim appid=aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee
```

> Set the value of second token aside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the value of the second token aside.
```
Very minor typo fix.

monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-3.1'
ms.author: wpickett
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 07/10/2026
uid: security/authorization/policies
---
# Policy-based authorization in ASP.NET Core

An ASP.NET Core authorization policy is a named set of one or more authorization requirements that the framework evaluates to decide whether a user is allowed to access a resource.

This article explains:

* Creating requirements.

> * Registering and applying policies.

Reviewer 2: To avoid gerunds:

```suggestion
* How to create requirements.
* How to register and apply policies.
```

* Authorization handlers for single and multiple requirement evaluation.
* How multiple requirements in a single policy are evaluated.

In practice, a policy is applied with `[Authorize(Policy = "...")]` (Razor components, pages, and controllers) or `RequireAuthorization(...)` (endpoints), and the framework uses handlers to evaluate the requirements behind a policy. <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationPolicyProvider> (<xref:security/authorization/iauthorizationpolicyprovider> documentation) generates policies dynamically instead of registering them at app startup.

> [Role-based authorization](xref:security/authorization/roles) and [claim-based authorization](xref:security/authorization/claims) use a requirement, a requirement handler, and a preconfigured authorization policy. These building blocks support the expression of authorization evaluations in code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Role-based authorization](xref:security/authorization/roles) and [claims-based authorization](xref:security/authorization/claims) use a requirement, a requirement handler, and a preconfigured authorization policy. These building blocks support the expression of authorization evaluations in code.
```

> This article uses Razor component examples and focuses on [Blazor](xref:blazor/index) authorization scenarios for ASP.NET Core 3.1 or later. For Razor Pages and MVC guidance, which apply to all releases of ASP.NET Core, see the following resources after reading this article:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This article uses Razor component examples and focuses on [Blazor](xref:blazor/index) authorization scenarios for ASP.NET Core 3.1 or later. For Razor Pages and MVC guidance that applies to all releases of ASP.NET Core, see the following resources after reading this article:
```

* <xref:razor-pages/security/authorization/policies>
* <xref:mvc/security/authorization/policies>

Examples in this article use *primary constructors*, available in C# 12 (.NET 8) or later. For more information, see [Declare primary constructors for classes and structs (C# documentation tutorial)](/dotnet/csharp/whats-new/tutorials/primary-constructors) and [Primary constructors (C# Guide)](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/instance-constructors#primary-constructors).

> ## Requirements and policy registration

Author: Do NOT ever suggest using named anchors in this doc set.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/security/authorization/BlazorWebAppAuthorization/Policies/Requirements/MinimumAgeRequirement.cs":::

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0 < aspnetcore-8.0"

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/security/authorization/policies/6.0/AuthorizationPoliciesSample/Policies/Requirements/MinimumAgeRequirement.cs":::

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/security/authorization/policies/PoliciesAuthApp1/Services/Requirements/MinimumAgeRequirement.cs":::

:::moniker-end

If an authorization policy contains multiple authorization requirements, all of the requirements must pass in order for the policy evaluation to succeed. In other words, multiple authorization requirements added to a single authorization policy are treated on an **AND** basis.

> [!NOTE]

> > A requirement doesn't require data or properties.

Reviewer 2: This sentence raises questions that it doesn't answer -- what then does a requirement require, or what's the alternative to data and properties?

Author: I agree! Rick didn't explain it out when he placed this remark ... *and I didn't either on the overhaul!* 🙈😆 I think there's a remark here in the article (I'll look later) about this. This note just means that the requirement is only required in its simplest implementation to be a marker class. It can have data/properties if needed, but they aren't required. I'll flesh this out on Monday/Tuesday. Thanks for calling it out.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-7.0"

> A policy is registered as part of the authorization service configuration with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationBuilder.AddPolicy%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> in the app's `Program` file. In the following example, the `AtLeast21` policy is created with a single requirement of a minimum age (`MinimumAgeRequirement`) and setting the minimum age to 21 years old:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A policy is registered as part of the authorization service configuration in the app's `Program` file by calling <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationBuilder.AddPolicy%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The following example creates an `AtLeast21` policy with a single requirement of a minimum age, and it sets the minimum age to 21 years old.
```

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthorizationBuilder()
    .AddPolicy("AtLeast21", policy => 
        policy.Requirements.Add(new MinimumAgeRequirement(21)));
```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0 < aspnetcore-7.0"

> A policy is registered as part of the authorization service configuration with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationOptions.AddPolicy%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> in the app's `Program` file. In the following example, the `AtLeast21` policy is created with a single requirement of a minimum age (`MinimumAgeRequirement`) and setting the minimum age to 21 years old:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A policy is registered as part of the authorization service configuration in the app's `Program` file by calling <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationBuilder.AddPolicy%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The following example creates an `AtLeast21` policy with a single requirement of a minimum age, and it sets the minimum age to 21 years old:
```

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthorization(options =>
{
    options.AddPolicy("AtLeast21", policy =>
        policy.Requirements.Add(new MinimumAgeRequirement(21)));
});
```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

> A policy is registered as part of the authorization service configuration with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationOptions.AddPolicy%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> in `Startup.ConfigureServices` (`Startup.cs`). In the following example, the `AtLeast21` policy is created with a single requirement of a minimum age (`MinimumAgeRequirement`) and setting the minimum age to 21 years old:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A policy is registered as part of the authorization service configuration in `Startup.ConfigureServices` (`Startup.cs`) by calling <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationBuilder.AddPolicy%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The following example creates an `AtLeast21` policy with a single requirement of a minimum age, and it sets the minimum age to 21 years old:
```

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-6.0"

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/security/authorization/policies/3.0PoliciesAuthApp1/Startup.cs" range="42-43,47-53":::

:::moniker-end

## Require global user authentication

For information on how to require authentication for all app users, see <xref:security/authorization/secure-data#require-authenticated-users>.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

## Authorization via an external service sample

The [Authorization via an external service sample (`dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples` GitHub repository)](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/tree/main/security/authorization/AuthorizationExternalService) shows how to implement additional authorization requirements with an external authorization service. The solution's `Contoso.API` project is secured with [Microsoft Entra ID](/entra/fundamentals/what-is-entra). An additional authorization check from the `Contoso.Security.API` project returns a payload describing whether the `Contoso.API` client app can invoke the `GetWeather` API.

### Configure the sample

> The following demonstration relies on using the [NSwag (Swagger/OpenAPI)](https://github.com/RicoSuter/NSwag) or [cURL](https://curl.se/) in a command shell.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following demonstration relies on using [NSwag (Swagger/OpenAPI)](https://github.com/RicoSuter/NSwag) or [cURL](https://curl.se/) in a command shell.
```

The output under **Responses** > **Server response** > **Response body** shows the weather forecast JSON returned by the `Contoso.API` project.

Perform the same steps with the access token that was generated with an invalid client app ID. The response is *403 - Forbidden*.

# [cURL in a command shell](#tab/curl-command-shell)

In a command shell, use the .NET CLI to execute the following `curl.exe` command to request the `WeatherForecast` endpoint. Replace the `{TOKEN}` placeholder with the first JWT bearer token that you saved earlier:

```dotnetcli
curl.exe -i -H "Authorization: Bearer {TOKEN}" https://localhost:7250/WeatherForecast
```

The output indicates success because the user's birth date claim indicates that they're at least 21 years old:

```dotnetcli
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Date: Fri, 05 Jun 2026 12:48:58 GMT
Server: Kestrel
Transfer-Encoding: chunked

[{ ... WEATHER DATA ... }]
```

Execute the command again using the second token with the invalid client ID (`appid`). The result indicates a policy failure:

```dotnetcli
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Content-Length: 0
Date: Fri, 05 Jun 2026 13:09:56 GMT
Server: Kestrel
```

> You can add breakpoints in the `Contoso.Security.API.SecurityPolicyController` and observe the passed client ID (`appid`) is used to assert whether it is allowed to obtain weather data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add breakpoints in the `Contoso.Security.API.SecurityPolicyController` and see that the passed client ID (`appid`) is used to assert whether it is allowed to obtain weather data.
```
